#COMPUTER BASICS

1. A computer is an electronic device that stores and process data, often in binary form, in accordance with commands from a variable program.

2. RAM stands for Random Access Memory  is a form of compuer memory that can be read and changed in order, used to store data and machine code.

3. Data is stored in memory elements of the computer like RAM, SSD, HDD, magnetic tape etc..

4. Keyboard

5. Output devices - Monitor, Printer, Speaker...

6. Mouse

7. Machine Level Language that is 0's and 1's which is a low level language is understood by the computer.
 
8. Input devices are keyboard, mouse, scanner...


#FUNDAMENTALS OF JAVA


1. Programming language is the language that computer understands. It is a set of instructions used to make our computer understand. Java is a high level langauage.

2. To make understand to computer and accordingly do the work, we need programming language because computer does not understand human language. There is a need of a language that understand computer. Computer only understands machine level language that is 0's and 1's. So we need a language that communicates with the computer.

3. Features of Java -

	i.    Platform Independent
	ii.   Portable
	iii.  Object Oriented Programming
	iv.   Robust
	v.    WORA(Write Once Run Anywhere)

4. Object ia an entity with state and behaviour.

5. A class is a collection of objects that have similar traits, behaviours and attributes.

6. Main Method - public static void main(String [] args
	a. public - It ensures that it can be accessed from anywhere.
	b. static - It ensures that it can be called by JVM(java virtual machine) without creating a object of 	            main class.
	c. Void - It states that the method main() does not return anything.
	d. main - It is the default name mentiond in java.
	e. String [] args - It is used to collect the arguments passed by the user through command line while          	                    runnig the program.

#JAVA VARIABLES AND DATA TYPES.

1. Statically Typed programming language - Programming languages in which we have to specify the types of data 	a variable is storing.
	ex - C, C++, JAVA...
   Dynamically Typed programming language - Programing languages in which there is no need of specifying the 	data types.
	ex- PYTHON, JavaScript...

2. Variables are the name of the locations given that stores data in memory. It is simply the name of the 	memory location.

3. We use (=) operator to assign Values to a variable .
	ex- int a = 12;

4. Primitive datatypes are byte, short, int, long, float, double, char, boolean.

5. Identifiers are the name given in a java program. It may be a class name, variable name and label name.

6. Operators in java : Arithematic, Relational, Logical, Assignment, Unary, Bitwise operator....

7. Increment operator(++) just increases the value by 1 ( i = i + 1 )where as the decrement operator is used to decrease the value by 1 (i = i - 1).

